---
layout: project
title: "Mogotu"
date: 2012-06-15 00:00:00+0800
categories: projects
---

Mogotu is a toy operating system based on **xv6**, a reimplementation of Unix Version 6 written in C for x86 architectures. [xv6][] is a teaching operating system developed by MIT to serve its Operating Systems Engineering (6.828) course.

Mogotu enhanced xv6 in the following ways:

*   Graphical user interface
*   PS/2 mouse support

The graphic system of Mogotu is based on VBE, a BIOS extension of VESA.
We have implemented a simple graphic library to support drawing basic graphic elements such as rectangles and ellipses. To draw elements on the screen, we first write data to a dedicated memory area called **device context** (DC). Then the data are copied to the video buffer. This design has yielded better performance than modifying the video buffer directly.

We modified the Process Control Block (PCB) in xv6 to provide each process with a message queue.

The PS/2 mouse driver was based on controlling the `0x60` and `0x64` I/O ports. Specific device contexts were used to draw the mouse cursor on the screen.

A window in Mogotu is called a **world**. Each user-level GUI application can have one or more worlds. A typical GUI application in Mogotu is as follows. A device context is binded to each world. The user can draw on the device context and then call `invalidate()` to refresh the area. All of the operations above form the **Mogotu API**.

```
int main()
{
    Message msg;
    HWorld hWorld = createWorld(..., proc, ...);

    while(getMessage(hWorld, &msg) == 0)
        dispatchMessage(&msg);
    exit();
}

int proc(Message *pMsg)
{
    switch(pMsg->type)
    {
    case WM_CREATE:
        /* ... */
        break;
    case WM_PAINT:
        /* ... */
        break;
    case WM_MOUSE_MOVE:
        /* ... */
        break;
    /* user defined message types */
    }
    return defProc(pMsg);
}
```

Here are some of the user-level applications we embed in Mogotu to demonstrate its capability.

*   mPaint (a painting tool)
*   mFile (a file browser)
*   mView (a picture viewer to view BMP images)

The user can also turn off GUI mode to run shell applications.

We have successfully run Mogotu on the QEMU emulator. We have also run Mogotu on a laptop, namely Lenovo ThinkPad E40 05785KC. We used GRUB as the boot loader.

The latest code of Mogotu can be found on Google Code: <http://code.google.com/p/mogotu-os/>.

Mogotu is a course project for *Modern Operating System* (Course Number: 34100053) at Tsinghua University in spring 2012. The team members are: Jinghong Situ, Heran Lin, Haowei Huang, Yuqi Wang, and Qi Guo.

[xv6]: http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/xv6/